All right, I'll get started. , so
welcome everyone. , today I'll be
speaking about CAP 74 which
introduces host functions for the
BN24 pairing friendly curve. , so as
you as you may know, Stellar already has
support for has host function support
for the BLS 12 through 381 curve which
was chosen over BN24  due to growing
was chosen over BN24 due to growing
support for it  and security.  but
support for it and security. but
we've gotten ecosystem feedback  that
we've gotten ecosystem feedback that
there are existing use cases that rely
on B2 BM 52 BN254 and adding native
support for it will make it easier to
implement those use cases on stellar.
The other option would be to adapt those
use cases  to to use the  the
use cases to to use the the
existing VLS host functions.  but that
existing VLS host functions. but that
would be prohibitively expensive in some
cases.
So this proposal the main part of this
proposal is that it adds  three host
proposal is that it adds three host
functions  G1 add G1 malt and a
functions G1 add G1 malt and a
pairing check  which gives us parody
pairing check which gives us parody
with the  BN24 pre-ompiles in the EVM.
with the BN24 pre-ompiles in the EVM.
Now there have been some discussions
about extending this  in particular
about extending this in particular
adding a host function  for G1
adding a host function for G1
multiscaler multiplication but this
proposal doesn't include that.  at the
proposal doesn't include that. at the
moment we're just trying to support the
existing BN24 use cases  and this
existing BN24 use cases and this
should be sufficient and for for any new
use cases  I the  recommendation is
use cases I the recommendation is
to use BLS
the the cap also specifies  new new
the the cap also specifies new new
cost types for the BN operations which
are similar to  the cost types that we
are similar to the cost types that we
added for BLS they're just a subset
because BN has a subset of host
functions and Yeah.  it's a a pretty
functions and Yeah. it's a a pretty
pretty short cap.
we also define the field the field
and groups
and  yeah  are there any questions?
If there aren't any questions.  Oh,
If there aren't any questions. Oh,
Tor's typing.
Yeah, it's a pretty straightforward cap.
, if if anyone has any questions, you
can tag me on Discord and we can we can
have discussion. , but if not, I'll
I'll pass it off to Jay to discuss
adding host support for Poseidon and
hash functions.
Can you hear me? Yeah, I can hear you,
J. Okay, wonderful. Yeah, great. , I
just want to add on what Sid just
talked about.  so yeah the ecosystem
talked about. so yeah the ecosystem
technically they could use  all
technically they could use all
these BRS functions but in the proving
proving framework including like this
the circuit  like switching those
the circuit like switching those
curves off is it's in reality it's more
challenging than u than we thought. It's
not just a simple curve swap but
sometimes those protocols can be evolved
and circles have to be recompiled with
different curve.  and then there's
different curve. and then there's
also different type of  issues with
also different type of issues with
like different u like proving systems
support one curve versus another. So
BN254 is is mostly for backward
compatibility.  and also  we've also
compatibility. and also we've also
added a solorone example of importing
the BN 254 inside the solar contract
which works  but it takes I think like
which works but it takes I think like
500 million instruction to do one
pairing. So that that is also
prohibitive. Just wanted to point out
the like these two specific rational why
this is needed.
cool.
and  yeah I will start on yes thank
and yeah I will start on yes thank
you an yes  so the poseidon hash
you an yes so the poseidon hash
function has also been  one of the
function has also been one of the
requested
primitive to add into solar  so
primitive to add into solar so
I've recently just looked into this I
don't have a cap yet but I will  lay
don't have a cap yet but I will lay
out  what I what I found and and sort
out what I what I found and and sort
of the different approaches u like
informally here and I'll work on the cap
probably be ready in the next couple
days.  so yeah, first of all, why is
days. so yeah, first of all, why is
this also needed
in the proving  in the DK application?
in the proving in the DK application?
the the commitment scheme  is a lot
the the commitment scheme is a lot
of commitment scheme is hash hash based
meaning you hash something and then you
prove that this thing has been hashed is
without revealing it. So the hash
function is is critical and then  for
function is is critical and then for
the hash function that's used  is also
the hash function that's used is also
important in terms of the performance of
the prover side.  so from what I
the prover side. so from what I
from what I understand  not expert but
from what I understand not expert but
from what I understand is using the
right hash function like Poseidon can
reduce the number of arithmetic argu
the the arithmetic gates the arguments
by an order of magn like two orders of
magnitude. So this this is a fairly big
difference that's why  a lot most of
difference that's why a lot most of
the  like the circuits use these field
the like the circuits use these field
field based hash functions and
poseidon and pose then two are two of
the most widely used ones.  so the
the most widely used ones. so the
next next question is why do we need to
support in the  in the host
support in the in the host
although the proof is generated offchain
and the verification of the proof is
doesn't involve hashing  the hash is
doesn't involve hashing the hash is
needed because some applications need to
maintain  for example a mer tree of of
maintain for example a mer tree of of
different  coins for example and then
different coins for example and then
to prove the coin's existence they can
prove without  without hashing but to
prove without without hashing but to
update it on chain or some any kind of
state that involves hashing  to be
state that involves hashing to be
proven it it needs to use a hash to to
update. So to to to be consistent we
need to make sure that the hash function
that's being proven is same hash
function as what's being used for
contract  state update. So that's kind
contract state update. So that's kind
of a big u overview of rational and
poseidon functions  these are these
poseidon functions these are these
are not two these are not one function
it's rather a family of functions or
it's a rather it's a it's an approach
that based on on sponges  and then
that based on on sponges and then
ways to connect it connect these
sponges to provide different
permutations with different input So
it's fairly generic.  you can
it's fairly generic. you can
in terms of you can plug in  different
in terms of you can plug in different
parameters like for example if you
require a higher security parameter then
the round parameters will be larger and
also depending on how many inputs you
need to hash at once also how many
output the throughput  the number of
output the throughput the number of
runs needs to be  adjusted. So, so in
runs needs to be adjusted. So, so in
the Prooseidon  paper there's
the Prooseidon paper there's
different implementations of different
versions of Prooseidon  given on the
versions of Prooseidon given on the
requirement as well as underlying
field. So here we the primary field what
we have to support  for compatibility
we have to support for compatibility
is BN24
and also BS2381.
So that's a that's a two  requirement
So that's a that's a two requirement
and based on these requirement some of
these parameters can be decided  but
these parameters can be decided but
some of them are still  can be some of
some of them are still can be some of
can be  cho choices. So we need to
can be cho choices. So we need to
really decide  what level of
really decide what level of
flexibility we want to supported with.
so in this discussion  last the
so in this discussion last the
discussion thread the last post  I've
discussion thread the last post I've
laid out the three approaches that I
feel we could support it.  so these
feel we could support it. so these
are in terms of u from the most high
level to the most low level. So number
one we support it as hash functions
directly. So for that we we will support
Poseidon Poseidon 2  and the two
Poseidon Poseidon 2 and the two
curves  and then
curves and then
so yeah I think this is the most
straightforward one  but the but the
straightforward one but the but the
limitation is that we are we need to
kind of decide on the parameters
internally like like there's a so so
in the in the Prooseidon  paper they
in the in the Prooseidon paper they
describe how to choose these parameters
and they they choose it. They provide a
script to how to generate these
parameters and own guideline on how how
to choose them and in reality from from
what I know seems like different
applications
sometimes generate their own
parameters. I'm talking about these
internal like round constants like these
matrixes.  so so if if someone from
matrixes. so so if if someone from
another ecosystem
that generates a proof with a
different instantiation of Prooseidon
then potentially here we could not
support it. So, so, so there's a little
bit of compatibility  risk  we we
bit of compatibility risk we we
have to  decide but I think for for
have to decide but I think for for
this one most parameters are fairly
straightforward.  and then we need to
straightforward. and then we need to
make sure that the major  prover
make sure that the major prover
the the major prover can be supported
like the circum or no and we we just
need to make sure that whatever
parameter we choose is compatible with a
major that wants whether we wanted to
migrate to stellar with so that's number
one  number two is to expose the
one number two is to expose the
internal poseidon building blocks so
as I briefly mentioned earlier the
prociding hashing  is a is a sponge
prociding hashing is a is a sponge
based  like a   block cipher it
based like a block cipher it
consists of absorbing the input per
permuting them and then squeezing them.
So  one of the  ecosystem member
So one of the ecosystem member
Antonio suggested that we could support
the generic  interface  to to
the generic interface to to
provide these and then users can just
choose the parameters or choose the
security parameters field and all that u
and then we can expose these options
through the SDK.  I like this
through the SDK. I like this
approach.  but I think it's maybe a
approach. but I think it's maybe a
little bit it involves a little bit of
figuring out the requirements for the
the libraries and then the the the level
of details we wanted to expose how to
expose them to SDK. I'm I'm not I'm not
expert in the this part yet.  so I
expert in the this part yet. so I
will say that this one right now  I
will say that this one right now I
would I would say this is a a less
favorable option.  and for I think one
favorable option. and for I think one
of the one of the main advantage for
this one is that Osan and Poseion 2 they
use very similar interface. So
potentially this this one is more
cleaner  that we just support this and
cleaner that we just support this and
then the two different  variants can
then the two different variants can
be supported like more uniformly.
doesn't add complexity
station.
Yeah.  yeah, I think
Yeah. yeah, I think
yeah, this requires the user to
understand what they're doing and how to
instantiate the hasher with these
options. Yeah.
yeah I think yeah I'll also talk about
number three because  I think exposing
number three because I think exposing
the host function
exposing the hash function is the
most  straightforward approach but in
most straightforward approach but in
reality it's just the different
parameters we we can support them all
but then  with
but then with
with the internal building block it's
possible that we could  let  give
possible that we could let give
more flexibility but yeah I Think that's
kind of the main rationale but in how to
do it we have to think it more carefully
>> wanted to say that for approach two and
probably three  it's not like we have
probably three it's not like we have
to put much burden on the users it's
just that we can build  SDK functions
just that we can build SDK functions
right that  do the same cache
right that do the same cache
functions for example because you have
an option one but there is a huge
benefit of  you know not introducing
benefit of you know not introducing
like  combinatorial explosion of the
like combinatorial explosion of the
code types into host which I think is a
really bad property of approach one
right it seems like instead of just
setting a few cost types we need a lot
of them and if you wanted to do
something more complex we would need
even more and this is I think a lot of
maintenance burden and a lot
complexity in the protocol which I think
kind of would be nice to avoid. So I
feel like these parameters could be
implemented in the SDK. So user
complexity would remain the same. The
only question is really performance at
this point.
Yeah, I I disagree on the cost type
part.  because I think  doing two
part. because I think doing two
and three can reduce the amount of cost
types potentially because these are just
>> three building building blocks and
>> three building building blocks and
then yeah
>> to be clear I totally agree with you.
I'm saying that I do not like option one
because in option one we need a cost
type per
>> hash and per whatever curve and
>> hash and per whatever curve and
perity which is an argument of the
function which  is what I refer to
function which is what I refer to
this explosion right we have like three
different inputs to that so I think
we're on the same page here I agree that
>> we probably want to have more limited
and like number of cost types that can
be useful building blocks.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. and by the way,
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. and by the way,
also the RT  it
also the RT it
I think for for a minimum  we just we
I think for for a minimum we just we
need to support RT 2  to support the
need to support RT 2 to support the
Merco tree or binary Merkel tree.  but
Merco tree or binary Merkel tree. but
we
fairly certain we don't need four right
now and then one maybe. So at a minimum
maybe just a R of two but I would need
to confirm it if this is  this is just
to confirm it if this is this is just
what we need. Yeah, I still feel like it
is like a really hacky design, right?
Like we have a host functions, it has an
argument, but it can have only like
couple of values. But
>> I don't know. I I would really try to
stay with the building blocks and do
work on the SDK side if it is feasible
from you know the instruction count
standpoint.
>> Yeah.
Yeah. So number three is  going a step
Yeah. So number three is going a step
further.  to to do this without
further. to to do this without
providing any  Prooseidon host
providing any Prooseidon host
functions because  the algorithm
functions because the algorithm
itself is fairly  they say
itself is fairly they say
straightforward. It's more like applying
like applying  arithmetics
like applying arithmetics
repeatedly in iterations.  so in
repeatedly in iterations. so in
theory most of the heavy costs are in
the field arithmetics which we already
provide for BS 12381 and then for BN we
are going to provide them.  so the
are going to provide them. so the
question is can we just do this on the
guest side so I did a bit of experiment
what what I wrote yeah hash 2 takes
about  17.6 6 million instructions.
about 17.6 6 million instructions.
This is trying to  like do the
This is trying to like do the
optimized implementation or I think it
it's with the current implementation
that's the best we can do and out of
which only like around three million
other crypto arithmetics.  the main
other crypto arithmetics. the main
reason is that every like to do every
irrespective you have to go round trip
to the host and then to do the bite
to internal representation conversion
and then internal type for for efficient
arithmetic requires if I remember
correctly it's a Montgomery form. So it
needs to do some arithmetic to convert
the numbers into  some form that's
the numbers into some form that's
efficient for  multiplication for
efficient for multiplication for
multiplication or division for example.
So there's quite a lot of these
overhead. So the s the the thought
process is if we can  bundle these
process is if we can bundle these
into some u  like more efficient
into some u like more efficient
field arithmetic functions such as
dot product and matrix multiplication
is it possible that we can reduce
that cost?  I don't have a straight
that cost? I don't have a straight
answer for that but  my intuition is
answer for that but my intuition is
that we can include we can we can reduce
that significantly but maybe not to the
level that we require.  for reference
level that we require. for reference
to hash  a mer tree of  a million
to hash a mer tree of a million
entries we need 20 hash operations. So
this would require  at least you know
this would require at least you know
10 to five times reduction of of that
number.  so I think we can
number. so I think we can
like reducing these operations.  it's
like reducing these operations. it's
it's doubtful that we'll get close to
the upper bound that  we we're
the upper bound that we we're
shooting for.  yeah bit of rationale
shooting for. yeah bit of rationale
reason into that is because even though
we can provide the matrix multiplication
these matrix are fairly small like 3x3
so we're not bundling like a thousand
operation into one we are just bundling
like you know nine and then the the rest
of it still like was code and these
loops and which will still have
significant overhead that's why I feel
like this approach even though it's more
attractive it it probably wouldn't
wouldn't work well and also it will
require the user to handle their
preciding implementation. So overall I
think  in my opinion  number one is
think in my opinion number one is
is probably the best option  to
is probably the best option to
support it today.  and then we need to
support it today. and then we need to
think more about these parameters and
choices
>> any numbers for option one
>> like how much more is it?
Yeah, I  yeah, in number three,  I
Yeah, I yeah, in number three, I
added up all the  metered cost for
added up all the metered cost for
arithmetic. They are about 2.5 million.
So I I would say  number one would be
So I I would say number one would be
much more closer to that.  there's
much more closer to that. there's
still
like some like extra cost of like memory
allocation and like
like the the conversions still a bit but
I would say it will be much closer to
2.5 million.
Yeah, good point.  Toma
are the numbers in three  like when
are the numbers in three like when
you say optimize is that like what do
you mean by that? Is that like a native
call that you tested
>> 17 million?
>> Yeah, it's not it's not a native
>> Yeah, it's not it's not a native
call. It's was contrast. So, it's
basically implementing
Poseidon  cache  in in W was but
Poseidon cache in in W was but
calling the host functions for BS
scalar add multiply and these functions.
, optimize just means that I try I try
what I can or what I know to  make
what I can or what I know to make
sure that these calls are all necessary
and then we're not wasting like
unnecessary convergence and things like
that.
>> Okay.
Okay.
the cost between one and two.
Yeah. I I don't know the in terms of CPU
cost. I don't know how much they will be
different. It's more like  the
different. It's more like the
complexity and the maintenance.  so I
complexity and the maintenance. so I
would imagine if done properly they will
be pretty similar in terms of
performance but it's more like the
question of yeah we want to expose that
level
>> right
again for the complexity I
sure I get the argument like I I think
really complexity
I said can be moved on the SDK right
I think what is important here is
protocol complexity and I feel like one
is more protocol complexity just from
from the standpoint of maintaining the
permutations of different input. So if
two is really yeah it's unique as the
same. So so yeah if you had a number for
two and if you knew that it's not
significantly worse than one and I feel
like two is much better option.
Yeah. Yeah. I haven't done enough
exploration in that direction yet. Yeah,
we I'll try that in the update.
Yeah. But even for two, we need at least
Prooseidon and Prooseidon two because
these spongy implementations are
different.  so that we're talking
different. so that we're talking
about
yeah like at least maintaining like
six
six of these functions essentially.
>> Yeah. But it it just feels much better
still because it's like at least finite
and it covers like all the cases, right?
>> Yeah. So as Nika points out like if
friendly isn't hard for coded so you
know something new needs to be done
and can do it as a guest layer.
>> Okay. Yeah I'll I'll do a little bit
more exploration to two and  yeah if I
more exploration to two and yeah if I
yeah I'll update on thread.
Yeah, Alex, I think yeah, that's a yeah,
that's a agreement. I think yeah, two is
more flexible. , it's just little bit
of complexity to to do it, right?
Yeah, I think
In option two,
even though we expose these
primitives, the internal parameters
would still have to be
like I think these interfaces don't let
you specify the
like the security parameters like the
the the long constants matrixes.  so
the the long constants matrixes. so
yeah one thing one other thought I had
was should we expose those or should we
like let let the user initiate the hash
with set of parameters they they want
and how relevant would that be  for
and how relevant would that be for
most ecosystem but I haven't figured out
answer to that yet so there's
potentially they're doing two with
maximum in top interoperability you
could be more complex.
>> Different parameters like would they
impact the runtime or are they just
>> No, it's just numbers.
>> No, not not runtime. Yeah, it's
different. It's just different hash. The
output will be different. But the
runtime is just the  yeah the
runtime is just the yeah the
width of the inputs and the number of
runs. So yeah long time I think we with
number two we can we can have that
metered with  like per iterations but
metered with like per iterations but
the security parameter is just the
choice of
yeah like the choice of hash states
that don't provide different outputs.
Yeah, I agree. Like if we
add a capability to provide
configuration and it does not change
host complexity much then we should do
that
>> because
>> okay
>> from the hosting point I would be
concerned about the metering but since
we can meter it all the same I don't see
like why would pass in an additional
vector or something as an input but
but we introducing too much
complexity here. Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I think yeah mix yeah two
would be a a good yeah good solution for
interoperability. I'll spend more time
on that.
I think I saw someone typing
Hey guys.
Hey.
>> Can you hear me?
>> Yes.
>> I'm in a bit of a loud environment. So,
you know,
you can hear me. , yeah. So, I joined
in the middle, so maybe I missed some
things, but I think I kind of understood
J's proposal.  with a hardcoded
J's proposal. with a hardcoded
option, an option that enabled us to
configure MDS and run constants
parameters.  seems to me that the
parameters. seems to me that the
configurable option is the is a good way
to go because that still optimizes the
hash function itself run faster after
the initialization but enable some
flexibility.
the one thing  I think we need to
the one thing I think we need to
ensure is and I don't entirely
understand how it works is  how often
understand how it works is how often
we need to initialize the potent initial
initialization types
like let's say for milling
as instructions
so  I think  it would be good to
so I think it would be good to
understand whether say to deploy  as a
understand whether say to deploy as a
separate contract and then poly to
whether the initialization only occurs
once deployment is done. So that those
are details that are less familiar.
so as long as we can guarantee that the
initialization of the hash doesn't often
think abilities disadvantage
yeah I don't know any specific
questions lots of when doing stuff so
actually guy was looking into that as
well yesterday he was looking into
implementations from what we saw  Tom
implementations from what we saw Tom
when we did it with you when we had the
budgets  it seemed So if it's around
budgets it seemed So if it's around
for milling instructions and then the
hashes themselves are around 10 million
for everything running wasn't right but
yeah
as long as for instance those four
million instructions happen
in my limitation one positive that's
that's not too bad.
Sorry, could you repeat the part? What's
the forming instruction?
>> , that's the that's the construction
of the house.
>> Oh, okay.
Yeah. ,
yeah. I think we
Yeah, I'm thinking like if if it's like
a contract like every contract has its
own  the the seat for  like the RNG
own the the seat for like the RNG
for example. Similarly, every every
contract can set its own the state and
then they can once it's set it should be
yeah that should be the initial cost
that
yeah I'm not also familiar I'm also not
very familiar with the internal working
of like these hashes so I need to look
look a bit into it but I imagine the
initialization is just one time and
absorbing
>> yeah and then yeah you need to and then
to use you have to absorb it first. So
that would be like probably based on the
number of inputs.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So the initialization is
just like  reading the checking the
just like reading the checking the
conference. It's not a stateful or
something that So as long as that's
done,
>> you can hash.
>> Yeah, that's right.
>> Yeah, I guess it's per No, it can be per
per it can be per contract life.
that's a good question that then you
need to serialize it somehow
betweenations or if you're  if you're
betweenations or if you're if you're
invoking a method from another contract
that then I guess can just keep invoke
getting cached and we can keep invoking
that but hey I I'm talking here about
lesson
but but yeah I mean it's it's not for
invocation it's it's
How however long you can do
here questions.
>> I have a com I have a question about
>> I have a com I have a question about
what you wrote. So  why why would it
what you wrote. So why why would it
matter whether other V projects  have
matter whether other V projects have
different configuration witnesses apart
from unless you want some
interoperability
to be inter between different
channels.
Other than that we can speak around for
answers.
, sure. Makes sense. I mean, it's not
it's not  it's definitely there's
it's not it's definitely there's
definitely an advantage to having the
same parameters that
Yeah.
more feature for sure.
Yeah. Yeah. I think I think it makes
sense. Yeah. U Yeah. Allowing the
constants to be overwritten  for Yeah.
constants to be overwritten for Yeah.
for different chains and different
projects. Yeah. Makes sense.
Yeah, good point.
Thanks GPT.
Okay. So  I think that's  seems like
Okay. So I think that's seems like
that's the main  questions and
that's the main questions and
concerns is the interoperability and the
flexibility
parameters. So yeah, I will look into
option two in more depth and then I will
update that thread and then cap will
follow.  is there any other questions?
I guess also to also to add I guess it
would be good to look at the parameters
of the circum lead the standard the
circum library and  see what they
circum library and see what they
correspond to in terms of other stuff in
specific projects  because I I so far
specific projects because I I so far
I've replaced them with something that
works on interoperable between what I
could that work in cir and rust
and m
So that's a riding stand library. If we
can go back to the stand library and use
the parameter that probably that
simplifies C.
>> Oh okay. Okay. So, so did you say you
you you changed those parameters in
order to
>> Yeah, basic basically on on both ends
both on serum
>> on the rough end
basically parameters that I keep from
side implemented forum but
I need to check if it depends on the
fun library or from other library system
that I found. That's how it's hard to
double check that if we could exceed to
the default CD parameter that would be
good.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> And probably they probably work on other
project.
>> Yeah. So perhaps supporting
>> right like supporting like a default set
if if it's not overwritten like default
to like a circum or something.
Cool. If no other questions, I guess
hand it over to you, Bri. You want to
close the meeting?
Okay. Wonderful.
Thank you all. See you later.